HW2: Due 11:59PM September 15

In this homework we'll create an initial strategic design for a version of the minesweeper game.

Let's first describe the version of the game that we'll design. We'll not be writing any code in this homework, but only creating an initial design.

The object of the game is for a player to find and seal all ten mines hidden  among hundred cells (10 x 10 cells). The mines may be in any random location.

There are three types of cells: mined cell, adjacent cell, and empty cell. 

A mined cell has a hidden mine.

An adjacent cell is next to one or more mined cells and knows the number of mines next to it. This number is not revealed to the player initially. 

An empty cell has no mine and is not next to a mined cell.

At the start of the game all cells are displayed grayed out, the player has no initial clue which cells are mined, adjacent, or empty. The player may either expose a cell or seal it.

The player may seal a cell if they suspect that cell to have a mine. Only an unexposed cell can be sealed. A sealed cell is shown with a seal symbol. A player may unseal a sealed cell and it will be displayed gray again.

Only an unexposed and unsealed cell can be exposed. 

The behavior of a cell when exposed depends on the type of the cell.

Exposing a mined cell ends the game.

If an empty cell is exposed, the player can see that it's empty. Furthermore, when an empty cell is exposed, it will trigger an expose action on all its unsealed neighbors.

When an adjacent cell is exposed (either due to users direct action or due 
to the successive action from exposing of a neighboring cell) it's count 
is shown and no further action happens.

There are two outcomes of the game. The player wins after sealing all the 
mines and exposing all the other cells. The player loses if a mined cell 
is exposed.

Create an initial design of this program and answer the questions below. 
Feel free to ask for frequent reviews.

Include a separate file (may be a scan of hand drawn picture if you like, or a pdf, tiff, word document, etc.) which shows a UML diagram of your design. Refer to that diagram from the text description you write here.

How would you design this program? 

REPLACE THIS WITH YOUR ANSWER. Refer to the diagram from the text here.

Discuss what language you would use.

REPLACE THIS WITH YOUR ANSWER

How do you plan to structure the program, what libraries would you use?

REPLACE THIS WITH YOUR ANSWER
